* How to disconnect the node from the Kubernetes clster?
    we can use the below command to disconnect/drain the node from the cluster.
    #kubectl drain node-name
    
* How Kubernetes connect with node?
    we can use the below command to add the worker node.
        #kubeadm token create --print-join-command      ##run this command to the master node and then past the output to the new worker name.
        
* Which kubernetes version are you use?
    1.19
    
* What are the differnet types of container?
    1. Single container
    2. Multi container
    3. sidecar container
    4. init container
    
* Where we can choose the multi container pod?
    We can choose multicontainer where one pod has the dependency with other pod. 

* How to login to the multi container pod?
    we can use the below commaned
        #kubectl exec -it pod-name -c container-name -- /bin/bash

* What is the difference between Statefulset and Deployment?
    The primary difference between is, in Statefulset, it is a sticky identification. it depends on the hostname. 
    if the container goes does down then it will up gain with the same name and the same suffix. This is helpful when we need cluster lind of deplyoment.
    
 * What is the namespace created by default in kubernetes/
    There are 3 name space by default:
    1. default
    2. kube-system - this is used for internal purpose.
    3. kube-public - This is made available for other users.
    
 * How to set the cpu and menmory limit based on name space ?
    we can use the "ResourceQuota" to set the memory and CPU for the namespace.
 
 * How to set the cpu and menmory limit based on pod?
    we can add "resource" parameter under the containers section.
    
* How to upgrade the kubernetes cluster?
    There are 2 steps:
    1. upgrade the master - when we are upgrading the master means do not mean downtime.
    2. upgrade the nodes - we can remove the node from the cluster by using drain. so that no pod will schedule on the node.
    Note: Kubernetes supports last 3 version.
    
* Why we need the networking soulution like Flannel  etc?
    To mantain the consistent IP address accross the cluster.
    
* What the objects you use in the K8s?
    1. Deploument
    2. Config Maps
    3. secret
    4. service account
    5. Cluster role
    6. Cluster role bindings
 
 * What is the use of service account?
    it provide the access to the some other servie to use the k8s cluster.
    
 * How to access the application from outside the Kubernestes ?  
    we can use service of "NodePort" type to access the application from outside the K*s cluseter.
 
 * What is the use of cluster IP in the K8s cluster?
    It helps the application to access with in the cluster.

 
 * What are the types of service?
    ther are primarily 3 type od service.
        1. NodePort – the service makes an internal pod accessible on a port on the node.
        2. ClusterIP – The service creates a virtual IP inside the cluster to enable commination between different services 
                       such as a set of front-end server to a set of back end servers.
        3. Load balancer – We provisions a load balancer for our application in supported cloud provides.
        4. ExternalName - This maps the service to the contents of the externalName field (e.g., foo.bar.example.com). 
                          It does this by returning a value for the CNAME record.

* How to copy a file or configuration file inside the Pod?
    we can use configMap. we can provide the data via config Map.
 
 * What is difference between secrets and configMap?
    The primary differnece is secrests use to store the sensitive information like password where as 
    configMap store the configuration of the application.

* What is static pod in kubernetes?
    Static pods are a type of pod that is not observed or managed via Kube-apiserver and is directly bound to the Kubelet daemon on the node.
 
 * What is daemon set and what is its use?
    It ensures a copy of pod runs on all the node.
    it is useful when we need the information from each node like collecting the logs from the each the node, kubeproxy.
    
* we are not seeing any pod on the master. Can i deploy the Pods in the master?
    Yes, we can pod in the master.
    we are not seeing pod in the master because "Taints" is set to "NoSchedule" to the master node. 
    Once we remove the vaule of "Tainits", weare able to see the pods on the master

* Is it possible to deploy the Pod on a specific node only?
    Yes, it is. we can achive this with the help of "nodeSelector" and "nodeAffinity".

* What is high availability on pod level?
    The primary there is 2 thing:
    1. liveness probe - it will check for the applicattion health at a regular interval time
    2. readiness probe - it will wait for the traffic for a specific time to get the connection.
    

* What is startup probes?
	The kubelet uses startup probes to know when a container application has started. 
    If such a probe is configured, it disables liveness and readiness checks until it succeeds.

* What is the headless service?
	Sometimes you don't need load-balancing and a single Service IP. 
    In this case, you can create what are termed "headless" Services, by explicitly specifying "None" for the cluster IP

* What are the scalling method are the there?
	HPA
	VPA
	
* Why we are creating resource quota for name space?
	we are using this to limit the server resources consumption.
	To avoid overutilization of the cluster.

* What type of volumes used?
	NFS, empty diectory, host path

* I have a database container that accept the request from the particular IP. So how we can achieve?
	we can use selector and labels.

* What is Node affinity, Traints, Tolerance?
	Node affinity - it is a property of Pods that attracts them to a set of nodes.
	Traints - they allow a node to repel a set of pods.
	Tolerance - Tolerations are applied to pods, and allow the pods to schedule onto nodes with matching taints.
	
* What is the purpose of Traints, Tolerance?
	Taints and tolerations work together to ensure that pods are not scheduled onto inappropriate nodes. 
    	One or more taints are applied to a node; this marks that the node should not accept any pods that do not tolerate the taints.

* What is Pod Disruption Budgets?
	Kubernetes offers features to help you run highly available applications even when you introduce frequent voluntary disruptions.
    
* What is the high level diagram for Kubernetes?
    The kubernetes follow master-worker achitehture. The master has the view componet and the work has the few compoent.
    master Component are:
        1. Controller manager - it is resposible for running controllers.
        2. Scheduler - it identifies the right node to place a container on based on the containers
        3. API Server - it is primary management component of Kubernetes. it exposes the k8s API.
        4. ETCD - it is a database that stores information in a key value format.
    Worker Component are:
        1. kubeproxy - it responsible for communication between the worker nodes. 
        2. kubelet - it is an agent that runs on each node in a cluster. 
                     It listen the instruction from the Kubernetes API server and deploys or destroy containers on the nodes as required
        3. Container runtime - it is resposible for running containers.Currently, K8s supports both Docker and Rocket containers.

* What is operator in kubernetes?
	This is used to deploy stateful application.

* What is control loop mechanism in kubernetes?
	
* What is CRD(custom Resource Definatsions)?

* What is HPA and VPA?
* What is ingress?
* What is headless service?
* What is Adapter container? 
* What is the command to join the new node to the k8s cluster?
* What is the difference in docker swarn and Kubernetes?
How is EDS? Not remember the exact name?
Affinity and inaffinity in os?
If I have 2 nodes then I already deployed 2 pod and I want to deploy 3rd node with inaffinity then how we will deploy?
What will have to existing workload when etcd server is failed?
How to expose the port to the out side of the cluster?
What are security features provided in the K8s?
What are the different deploymeny strategy in K8s?
What are the component of os?
The pod is in loopback status then what is the probably reason?
What is service?
How networking works in os?
How to communicate the service from one projects to another?
What is the storace class you used?
How to provide the access to the user in thr k8s
How to provide the Adim accsee to the cluster to a user?
How what is the K8s architecture?
What are the types od service?
What is the different between liveness probe or readness probe?
Can we connect multiple pv to a single pvc?
How to get the pending pod in k8s?
What is training and tolerance?
Command to apply taint?
