How to create the EC2 instance using teraform?
At which  state file will generate?
How we manage state file?
How to create a resource which has the dependency with other recourse?
How to delete an EC2 instance in a group of EC2?
How to create 10 EC2 instance with a different name?
If 4 developer is managing in teraform and they all push the code at a same time then how we will avoid this situation?
What is precedence of variable in terrform?
What is functiona in Teraform?
Create a terraform code for creating the ec2 instance?
How to read terrform state file?
How to terraform init?
What is terraform import?
How to recover when state file is lost? Hint: terraform import
What is the difference in module and workspace in terraform?
How to limit the teraform version between the team?
What is count=0 in teraform?
Which parameter we need to add when we have the dependency with other recourse to be created before any other resource?
If AWS launches a new service, then those details is not present in the terraform. So how can we handle such situation?
When 2 people execute terraform script at the same time, then how we can avoid this situation?
How we can store the state file remotely?
What is data source in terraform?
What is loop in the terraform?
Can we add two providers in the terraform scripts?
How to copy local files in ec2 using tetaform?
How to copy local files in ec2 using tetaform?
How to download the statefile from the remote location?
If I change the resources I'm the AWS then what will happen?hint: it will Recreate?
How to list the resources created in the terraform?
Is it possible to restrict the terraform Version?
What is NULL resources in teraform?
How to call the terraform modules?
How to store the output of the teraform? Hint: terraform template and local file provisions.
What is terraform lifecle? Hint: Destroy and recreate
How to create the same infrastructure and redirect the traffic from the load balancer to the newly created infrastructure?
How to integrate the terraform with ansible?
What is the cicd for tertaform?
What will happen if teraform break in the middle?
What is terroform work space?
What os the terraform infrastructure?
How to get the output of all the resources created during the terraform apply?
How to configure S3 to push the file into the statefile?
When we run terraform in 2 difference location then how terraform lock the state file to update?
How to encrypted terraform statefile ?
What is terraform validate?
Can we run the specific block of code in terraform?
How to delete the specific resources in terraform?
How to delete a specific resource in the terraform?
What is resource data in terraform?
